Hi everyone, welcome to episode 5 of the Grand Prixquel Pod where we discuss all things feeder series.
We're going to be talking about the Australia race weekend for Formula 2 and Formula 3 on this episode.
And our hosts for this episode are myself, Evan, Alex, Peter and Nova.
So firstly, let's dive into F3.
We had a shortened sprint race with Bruno Del Pino winning, Enzo Deligny in second and Brando Badoer in third.
Both Deligny and Badoer getting their maiden F3 podiums.
I think there was one main incident in this race, of course.
Teammates from PREMA, Louis Sharp and James Wharton collided.
This was on lap 9 and this brought the race to an early end on lap 9.
Yeah, so what do we guys think about the Sharp and Wharton crash?
Not a good start to the season for PREMA.
Yeah, and unfortunately, Louis Sharp has sustained a back injury in that.
So we wish all the best to him and he can have a quick recovery.
But this is extremely costly for PREMA.
We already knew they were struggling with money a bit.
And now they have to…
I mean, those chassis will probably be broken given how big of an impact it was.
And both of them did not start the feature race.
Although that was more on medical grounds.
I wouldn't be surprised if the amount of repairs needed also played a part in that.
I'm actually pretty surprised that Wharton didn't sustain an injury.
He seemed pretty okay afterwards.
I'm pretty surprised.
He did sit out the future race on medical grounds.
So we may just not…
It could even be a concussion or something.
We don't know.
But it was an extremely brutal impact.
And it's a testament to how safe these cars are.
That there were no serious injuries sustained in it.
But other than that, due to the shortness of it, we had less than halfway distance completed.
There's an…
Louis Sharp was deemed at fault for it.
Given a 10-second penalty and two penalty points.
But yeah, I feel like in terms of the sprint race, that…
I can't lie, as a Freddie Slater fan, I feel like he struggled a bit in the sprint.
He was a bit slow off the line when he got back to P10.
But yeah, Ugo Ugochukwu was quite good.
Making up some positions.
Started to P11, made it up to P8.
I think we have kind of a similar problem to what we had last year.
Where it feels like overtakes are possible.
But for some reason, the ones you expected from Slater, Ugochukwu, they don't do as much as expected.
And I hope that it'll get better over this season,
and they do it,
because it would be really sad if we don't get any good overtakes from them,
because that's really what the sprint is great for.
I think a factor in the sprint race, though, was just a shorter distance.
Because we got less than halfway distance.
So maybe…
Because we saw in the feature race, of course, they held on to their tires better.
So maybe then, in the last five laps or so, when they'd start making more progress.
Ultimately, we can't fully judge until we get a full-length sprint race.
But I think this leads us nicely on to the feature race.
Where we had Ugo Ugochukwu take the win over Freddie Slater in second and Taito Kato in third.
It was quite a decent race, I feel like.
The qualifying session was extremely fun for it.
With Nael on pole.
But we had Ugochukwu and Slater less than a tenth behind him.
So it really shows that, once again, it's going to be Campos vs Trident for the title.
I'm going to be real.
I did not see it.
I saw the repeated video a lot of times.
I did not see where Nael was supposed to move.
I did not see it at all.
I think these things are done by sensors.
So it's probably just if the sensor picked something tiny up.
It really is unfortunate for him because he'd have been P3 otherwise.
So…
Lacorte also got that five second penalty for moving before the start signal like Nael did.
Lacorte was surprisingly quick.
Last year he was struggling quite a bit but…
This year, I mean, he was P3 at one point.
Until Stromsted had things to say about that.
I don't think I've ever seen Lacorte so far up.
And it was actually quite surprising throughout the race.
And he held on to it for quite a bit.
And it was generally quite exciting.
I mean, he'd have been P4 but then due to the penalty.
And of course, the safety car, he fell right to the back.
No, I don't think it was P4.
He'd have been lower down anyways.
But that was Stromsted, he was in P4.
Sorry.
But he was having quite a strong race pace wise.
So let's see if he can keep it up.
I saw someone call Badoer-
I don't know how to pronounce it.
I'm very sorry.
I saw someone say that he was already in 2025 one of the most underrated feeder series drivers.
And seeing him finish in both races very strong.
Even though, you know, he was a bit aided by other people having issues.
I think maybe not in a title fight,
but I think he could be a driver that we see higher up often.
And kinda not look at,
but who could become interesting also on more podiums.
Yeah, and…
Yeah, this leaves us in F3 with VAR leading the team's championship.
And Ugo Ugochukwu leading the drivers.
I would say it's quite surprising to see VAR at the top.
Because we can see on pace, it's clearly Campus and Trident.
So I suspect in the next few rounds, we'll go back to what we've seen.
Just purely on the pace.
And drivers is not really a surprise with both Ugo Ugochukwu and Freddie Slater up top.
Slater's in third, but he's tied in points with Bruno Del Pino in second.
So he's pretty much second.
So I expect we're going to continue to see this title fight over the next few rounds.
Yeah, and surprisingly, as you said, Taito Kato is fourth in the standings.
So he is doing quite well.
I think, as for Van Amfersfoort, they're one of those teams that really, it's an advantage of sprint races.
Because they're often in those positions around the top 10.
And then, if you turn it around, I think Deligny and Del Pino are both pretty fine drivers.
So I think that's really where they can take their points.
But I obviously agree with you that it'll happen.
But I think, as for the team standings, it's kind of shocked me, actually, how far down some of the drivers in Campos and Trident were,
because I was really negatively surprised by De Palo, as an example,
because I expected more of them.
He just had an overall tough weekend.
I mean, in qualifying, he crashed.
And that really put him on the back foot for the whole weekend.
Because he's then started from the back in both races,
and then he had some contact in the future race.
So hopefully, you know, this is gonna get going again.
But it has not been the best start for him.
And then, yeah, Stromsted had the pace.
But then decided to get a penalty.
And, yeah.
But, yeah, I think this leads us on to F2 now.
In F2, in the sprint race, we left off where we did last time with Joshua Durksen winning the F2 sprint race in Melbourne.
He, of course, won the F2 feature race back in Abu Dhabi.
So he continues to show this pace, which I don't really know how much I expected of Durksen.
And, of course, he is with Invicta now.
But what do we think of this Durksen pace?
Because even in the future race, he's doing decently well, I feel like.
I feel like, at Invicta right now, kind of is-
What's the term?
Unstoppable force against immovable object.
Because we've seen it so often where Durksen just seems to be a lot, lot quicker.
Like, he really gets down with the car.
And it just seems to really, really work for him.
While for Camara, it always feels like, you know, he's got those resources.
You know, he works with the team.
He's getting really into that.
And if we were anyone else, he'd say kind of, it's expected that the team prefers Camara and, you know, aids him.
But as we're those two, I think it will become really interesting.
Because we saw that, you know, in this sprint, like, Durksen really pulled that one away.
Accomplishing him on the podium, we had Leon and Dunne.
And then also Inthraphu-
Oh, I've butchered his name, but.
Inthraphuvasak
Yeah.
With Ritomo Miata.
Gabriele Mini, who's done really well this whole weekend.
I mean, he got mechachromed in qualifying.
So he's looking quite fast in qualifying,
but then his engine decided, no.
And he ended up having to start P21.
But in the sprint race, he went from P21 to P6.
That's 15 positions gained.
So it only makes me wonder what he could have done if he didn't have that misfortune qualifying.
This is one of the moments where I say that we should have the IndyCar, what's it called?
The Big Movers Award.
Because from P21 to P6 is an insane amount of positions to gain.
And, like, he did the same thing in the feature race where he went P21 to P8.
Again, I mean, he clearly had the pace this weekend.
Just got unfortunate with the qualifying.
And I think that just really shows the problem with F2.
Because, again, in the feature race, you had Dino Beganovic running net P2.
And his car decided to give up.
And it really is a shame because, ultimately, this could have an effect on the championship.
Because, yeah, and these aren't drivers who were running maybe P15.
They are contending for the top positions that, you know, for the podium places.
Let's be honest.
Mini would have been there if he had more luck in qualifying.
And the fact that they're getting affected by this.
I mean, for me, it's not really about, you know, proving themselves.
Because anyone watching F2 will know that it's not always the perfect representation.
And you'll have drivers even lower down the standings who, you know, they're great drivers.
But I'm always worried that this will have an impact on the super licenses.
Because those drivers, they still need it.
And it would be such a shame if they miss any opportunities because of things like this.
And it's also about the kind of the public perception on them, I think.
Cause whilst as fans who follow the series a lot more, actually know what it's like.
If somebody just looks at it with not much context, they're going to get misinformed.
And we saw this, you know, with Victor Martins, who's been incredibly quick throughout his career.
But the last two years, he just had a lot of bad luck.
And it made his stocks fall as a driver very much.
It just feels like with F2.
It doesn't just feel fully representative after the like.
And yes, it's only one round in, but we're going to have to see over the next few rounds then.
I mean, that's kind of already going through the direction of the problem.
That is, we don't know how many rounds we'll actually have this season.
And where like last year, I would say Victor Martins was often really unlucky.
But if you take an example, let's say Monaco, where, you know, there was a crash and he could have won that one.
But those are like, let's say, 25 points that he technically lost.
He would have pretty much been able to get those points in a bunch of, there's so many races.
He would have been able to do that.
But this year, we're looking at the threat of the championship, like being really shortened.
And I mean, I'm saying the same thing as we said in the F1 Academy episode:
Obviously, the safety of the people involved in the countries is the first priority.
But just from a championship point of view, it's, you know, if nothing, like if no war happens, if everything gets resolved, it's great for everyone, including the sport.
But it's not the first priority.
It's just like a side thing, which I would obviously like, but majorly for the people that would not get hurt anymore.
Yeah, I think there's now- there's one big incident in F2 that we've not quite talked about yet.
And that is the crash between the Rodin teammates.
Alex Dunne and Martinus Stenshorne.
Yeah, I mean, Alex Dunne has clearly not learned.
This was an issue for him last year.
He racked up 12 penalty points, remember, last year.
But in feeder series, they’re all wiped at the end of the year.
I mean, with all due respect, I don't know if that's a good thing.
Because if we look at drivers in general and you're like a driver who's like racked up like three or four points, then I say, you know, it's fine.
It's maybe it's even good if you're like a driver that does many races and, you know, F2 or F3, they're a long season.
It can happen.
But if you're a driver who's racked up 12 penalty points, enough for a race ban, and you get back in the race that you should technically be banned in, and you instantly crash it, I think it shows that the penalties are not working.
Because it's always, oh, he's getting, you know, a few grid place dropped, you know.
But it feels like it's not enough to make him actually reconsider the way he's raced, which is really, really sad.
Because I think he's a great driver and I think he's incredibly quick and he wouldn't need this.
Yeah, but it's the same story every time, I feel like.
We've been saying this since Bahrain last year.
He just needs to learn, but he's clearly not learning.
And the fact that it was, there were P1 and P2 at the time and he's crashing into his teammate on lap two of the race.
And that's just a bit shameful.
Personally, I think we need to get the penalty system as the points system to be similar to F1, where it carries over the seasons as well.
Because, like, I guess hypothetically it's just a clean slate.
But, like, for drivers like Dunne, who we know, like, you know, last season, 12 points accumulated, right?
I think we should have it carry over.
And at least, maybe, okay, maybe not the whole season's worth the points.
Maybe it will expire, like, F1.
So, as, like, let's say if you get a penalty in Australia last year, right?
Or, like, points last year, those points would expire this year.
But I think we do need to have, like, at least the penalty point system needs to be overhauled a little bit.
Just because, yeah, again, with Dunne and everything and how many, and what will happen in the future race.
I think that's probably an important thing that FIA needs to reconsider.
I think the problem is that in feeder series, it opens up the door to too many possibilities.
Because it really depends on how you do it.
Because if you go to another series, and we say it's just an FIA licensed series, you can kind of, at the best you could look,
where can I sign up, where I just do one off round, and I just, you know.
The problem is it's not as easy to do as you would do it in F1.
Because in F1, you know, everyone's just pretty much only doing F1 these days.
And, you know, they just do it, and it's clear you're getting banned for the next race.
But if you're in, say you're in F3, and you can now get, like, all the penalty points, but next season you're supposed to move up to F2.
I don't actually have a mind right now if there's technically a season you can kind of go to before F2 and F3 start.
But you could technically sign up to, you know, do something else.
Then say, oh, you know, I'm banned, sadly.
And move on, which wouldn't help anyways.
Which is why I think it should be instead that, you know, they keep the points, but it's like- wait a minute, I need to get my cat.
Cody strikes again.
Also, actually a good thing to mention, Lacorte also had the same thing as Dunne last year.
He got a race ban, and also he almost got another one last year as well.
But now his points have obviously reset.
So I think it's, again, probably a good thing to consider at least changing how maybe the penalty points work or how penalties are applied, etc.
The whole idea of, like, when I was talking about, like, points transferring across, like, seasons.
I think the idea that I was going for is rather, like, you have, let's say a driver competes in, like, for F2, right?
If you compete in F2 for two seasons or something, those points from the first season, or penalties from the first season, should carry over to the second season.
I don't think it should be in between categories, because if we do it in between categories, where it's going to have the same problem, like Alex said, where maybe, let's say, a driver racks up 12 penalty points in F3.
They do something in between F2 and F3 before moving up or whatever, and then they get a race ban, blah, blah, blah.
So I think it should just only be between categories, like, within the same category, just across seasons instead.
What I wanted to point out, what I would do is, you know, you said that you just kind of lose points anyways.
If that doesn't happen, you kind of, if, you know, you're going into this season with 12 penalty points, and, you know, you're technically, say, you know, you shouldn't be banned, but, like, I'd say as kind of on hold back, that if you again get penalty points, say you rank up the, if you do it in the course of over multiple seasons, the maximum is, like, 14 points.
And then if you then again prove that you're not doing all that, I think that should be the point where it's like, because right now, I think Dunne does need some kind of ban, because it's really f***ing stupid.
I don't think he got any penalty point in Australia last year, so right now he would be, if, you know, penalty points run out, he'd be at 12.
But I also understand saying, hey, it's kind of whack to instantly ban him from racing in Australia.
I think probably he thought Martinius Stenshorne was Victor Martins, because Victor Martins was his favourite person last year to meet on track, so maybe he just got a bit confused.
He's missing Victor Martins, I think.
Martins, Martin, then Martinius Stenshorne, I think, I think it's plausible, actually.
Did you all see the video of his best of, and it's just, I think, six times it's an incident with Victor, like, they met each other on track every single weekend, it was beautiful, I miss it.
Yeah, it's like they're linked somehow, so yeah, if he goes to endurance racing, Victor, you better watch out.
They're both the same team right now, they're both Alpine, with Victor being one of the WEC drivers, and now Dunne’s one of the academy drivers.
So they're literally everywhere at this point, they follow each other.
Yeah, but if your name is Martin, Martinius, stay clear of Alex Dunne, he's going to find a way to do something to you.
I mean, I've said it before, I think they should just send Dunne to WEC with Victor, and as long as they don't meet each other on track, it's going to be fine, you know?
They just have to be in the same car so that they can, you know, be close enough to the other, but as long as they don't meet on track, it's going to be fine, trust me.
Yeah, unfortunately, we don't have Alpine in WEC next year.
Such a shame, such a shame.
Yeah, and then let's look at the, we have the F2 standings, top five teams: Campos, Invicta, Hitech, MP Trident.
Quite surprising to see Trident up there, because they were one of the slowest teams I would say last year, and now we have Laurens van Hoepen getting a podium all of a sudden.
I think that was the biggest surprise of the weekend for me.
Yeah, no, van Hoepen getting, being, well, he got, yeah, P3 in the feature race, he was P7 in the sprint.
I think just the concept of van Hoepen being up there is really wild to me. I don't know why.
He's P3 in the drivers at the moment, only behind Tsolov and Camara.
I don't like to believe that. I'm not willing to believe that. So you're trying to, we're trying to say that van Hoepen is actually behind the two title contenders, essentially.
I don't believe that. I refuse to believe that, actually. There's no way.
Dark calls for the title, Laurens van Hoepen. But I mean, I think the standings ultimately show it is going to be Tsolov versus Camara .
Maybe Mini and Beganovic can also work their way in, if they have a bit more luck.
And Hitech, I don't know. I mean, Colton Herta’s F2 debut. I think for him, my impression which I got from Colton was, he was just, he struggled with knowing when to make the right move at the right time.
It's all about the timing because it's been a very long time since he's done this sort of race.
Same with a standing start.
Yeah, first one in like 10 years, I think it was. And also, these cars, these tyres are so different to what he's used to.
But he is slowly getting there. He was P7 in the future race. So I think he is learning. And we all know, if you watch IndyCar, you know how fast he is.
So, and Hitech is a good team. It's also nice to see Miyata finally gelling with F2.
It only took him two seasons to get there.
Yeah.
Took two seasons, took two teams, three teams actually now, technically. But I think it is good that he's finally up there.
But to be fair, ART was a**.
I mean, we know Miyata is a good driver. He's a Super Formula and a Super GT champion.
And also, it helped that Hitech are a good team. We saw Luke Browning with them challenge the title last year.
So hopefully, this gives both Miyata and Herta, you know, the Unk team, a chance.
The unc- the “unction”. Literally the oldest pairing on the F2 grid, by the way.
Colton's, what, 26, 27? Miyata's like, what, also similar age, actually.
I think that they are in the history of, you know, modern Formula 2. I think they're the oldest duo we've ever had.
They're older than several F1 drivers.
I think they're older than at least five F1 drivers. Like, minimum, five F1 drivers.
Yes, maybe.
Also, allegedly Colton is 25. Um, I got that wrong. I say allegedly, though. Because I think he's older. I still believe he's older. But he's allegedly 25. Don't sue us.
It is quite funny to see, to see, like, rookies off the grid. And he has, like, you know, Tsolov, Camara and then just Herta, who is multiple IndyCar Grand Prix winner. And, you know, he's just another rookie in F2.
So someone will point out that when, uh, Colton Herta made his debut in IndyCar, I think it was, uh, Nikola Tsolov was 11.
Oh.
Great.
Like Herta, we had Nicolás Varrone from the World Endurance Championship making his F2 debut this weekend. And, I mean, he was in the lead of the race at one point. Albeit, that was due to the safety car picking up the wrong driver. And he got a penalty for speeding in the pit lane. But he did decent enough, I feel like.
I think he's really disadvantaged by the fact that he's in a bad team. Because I was kind of rooting for him. Because I knew that he's, he's a good driver. He's, I think he's a great driver. I just think, uh, I'd love if he stayed in endurance and, like, sports cars instead. Because this is pretty much a lost cause. What is he doing here? He's pretty much wasting his time doing this in, it's, it's a s****y car.
If he had at least got, you know, the seat in, Invicta, I'd say, hell yes, go for it. But, Van Amersfoort, really? Like.
And, before this year, he's not raced in single-seater since 2020.
I think that's, for me, honestly, less of a problem. Because, I know we always talk about, if you want to go to F1, you have to stay in a path.  But, in general, I think, I understand this driver, you know, make the switch and also make it a native. Why the f*** not?
Especially if you maybe are getting instead to go rather than a direction of IndyCar or Formula E, where it's really usual to, you know, not race single-seaters all the time. Just not with Van Amersfoort.
I mean, honestly, F2 delivered more than I expected it to this year. I mean, in Australia. And I'm quite excited. I'm more excited for it now than I was maybe a week ago.
I think it's also because we thought the grid was going to be absolutely terrible. I mean, it's probably not one of the best F1 grids we've had in the last couple of years.
There's no real, like, absolutely notable drivers that we can really mention that we think will 100% make it to F1, compared to, like, maybe, like, the F3 grid, even. So, that's probably why.
I feel like we have a grid of drivers who are really solid. I mean, the majority of them won't make it to F1, probably, but we definitely have a new generation to feed FE. Maybe in the endurance, definitely. I think we'll be fine.
Alex Dunne is built for FE. FE Gen 2. That's his calling.
In another alternative timeline, Alex Dunne would have been driving an FE Gen 2 car, and I support that.
As for the next round of F2 and F3, given the unfortunate situation currently, we probably won't see Bahrain and Jeddah.
We do hope everyone stays safe in that area, and, of course, racing is not the biggest priority.
But, ultimately, I do feel like it's quite likely the next two rounds will get cancelled.
So, this means we don't have any F2 or F3 action until June, where we have Monaco.
Big- no, Monaco?
Yeah, Monaco in June.
Jesus Christ, bro!
Yeah.
Because it was meant to be Bahrain and Jeddah in April, but those aren't happening.
And then, May, there was nothing scheduled.
But the idea of Monaco, especially in the F3 grid, oh, dear God, that'll be fun.
Monaco's second round, yeah, we're gonna, this championship is gonna be very interesting.
If we're doing round two at Monaco, then.
Because, Jesus Christ, bro.
It was gonna be, yeah.
It would have been round three for F- round two, round three for F3 and round four for F2, it was meant to be, but.
And, I mean, it really looks bad for F3 if we consider that Madring is still not 100%, you know, sure of anything.
Well, Madring, the concept of Madring, and being Madring in the finale.
I think we mentioned this on episode three already.
Yeah, no aura.
Terrible for F3.
Monza needs to be the end.
It needs to be Monza.
So, an eight-round F3 championship.
And, of course, we are meant to have EC3 racing the Madring before F3 and F2, so.
That would be our indication for…
Didn't Madring also know that's not happening.
Because I swear that was, like, uh, that was, like, drama, because Madring was like, no, that's not happening, actually.
Well, it's not till September.
We just have to see.
Okay, I just hope it's happening because I want to see Monza as a final.
Hashtag bring back Monza.
Bring back Monza as a finale again.
Yeah.
Next year, hopefully, we're going to have Portimao on the F2 and F3 calendar.
That would be fun.
You know what? Yeah, I like Portimao.
I'm just saying Monza's still on the calendar, by the way.
I'm just saying Monza as a concept of…
We're completely stirring off topic.
We should end this.
We can keep on- it's fine.
We have another tangent.
Welcome back, monzabanking tangents.
Okay, the point is Monza is by far my favorite track anyways.
I love Monza so bad I'm going to see it in summer.
Oh, Mr monzabanking loves Monza.
How surprising.
I'm really dramatic about Monza.
And I think it's…
You have to think of the history.
You have to think this is circuit that, beside one year, has hosted an F1 race every single year since 1950.
You have to think about the amount of drivers that won here.
You know, about the history.
About the people that win their championships around here.
You know, and it's not just in the F1, but just like in racing in general.
I f***ing love this track.
So, imagine you're an F3 driver.
It's like the first time you really follow any kind of, you know, racing.
Any kind of F1 out in the racing directly.
You're like, in the big leagues.
And you get to finish at Monza.
And if you're good, you win at Monza.
Ultimately, bring back Monza.
That's all we need.
Bring back Monza to the finale.
F3, please.
I think it just makes sense as well.
Because a new circuit being the finale just doesn't sit right with me.
Like a completely brand new street circuit.
And a street circuit.
Yeah, exactly.
I mean, we all know how much F2 loves Baku.
Well, I think that does it for this episode of the Grand Prixquel Pod.
Just make sure to give us a follow on Twitter, Instagram, TikTok, @grandprixquel.
And I would just like to know your thoughts about this episode.
We're going to be doing a race review on F1 Academy's Shanghai race week.
As well as reviewing the EC3, EC4 and Formula Winter Series seasons.
So tell us what you want to hear from us from next episode.
And from all of us, thanks for listening.